README.md, before:

# Resource API
The Resource API gem is a framework for building a simple RESTFUL API in a Rails application. It provides bases classes that can be extended to customize the functionality to fit your needs.

## Build
```
gem build resource-api.gemspec
```

## Installation
Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'resource-api', github: 'https://github.com/performant-software/resource-api'
```

And then execute:
```bash
$ bundle install
```

Or install it yourself as:
```bash
$ gem install resource-api
```

## Usage

#### Controllers
Controllers are setup in a way to perform based CRUD operations without much need for customization. Define your allowed parameters in your models (see below) and the controller will handle the rest. The `Api::ResourceController` also provides protected methods that can be overwritten or extended to customize functionality:
```ruby
def apply_filters(query)
  return query unless params[:homeroom].present?
  
  query.where(homeroom: params[:homeroom])
end
```

The `Api::ResourceController` uses the `Queryable` concern to build your query on the `#index` and `#show` routes. You can use the `preloads`, `joins`, `left_joins`, and `per_page` methods to optimize the query and avoid unnecessary queries during serialization.

```ruby
class Api::StudentsController < Api::ResourceController
  per_page 20
  preloads :school, :classes
end
```

#### Models
Models can be setup using the `Resourceable` concern to define strong parameters. The list of parameters can be acessed using `<ModelName>.permitted_params` (i.e. `Student.permitted_params`). This is done automatically in the `Api::ResourceController` in order to enforce the appropriate parameters.

```ruby
class Student < ApplicationRecord
  include Resourceable

  belongs_to :school
  has_many :classes, dependent: :destroy

  accepts_nested_attributes_for :classes, allow_destroy: true

  allow_params :first_name, :last_name, :yog, :dob, :homeroom,
               classes_attributes: [:id, :section_id, :_destroy]
end
```

#### Serializers
Serializers use the `ObjectSerializer` concern to define which attributes to render and when.

The `index_attributes` and `belongs_to` attributes defined will be rendered on the `#index` route.

The `show_attributes`, `belongs_to`, and `has_many` attributes defined will be rendered on the `#show`, `#create`, and `#update` routes.

```ruby
class StudentsSerializer < BaseSerializer
  index_attributes :id, :first_name, :last_name
  
  show_attributes :id, :first_name, :last_name, :yog, :dob, :homeroom
  
  has_many classes: [:id, :section_id]
  
  belongs_to school: SchoolsSerializer
end
```

## License
The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

Updating README.md with Heroku instructions and adding preinstall/postinstall scripts

README.md, after:

# Resource API
The Resource API gem is a framework for building a simple RESTFUL API in a Rails application. It provides bases classes that can be extended to customize the functionality to fit your needs.

## Build
```
gem build resource-api.gemspec
```

## Installation
Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'resource-api', github: 'https://github.com/performant-software/resource-api'
```

And then execute:
```bash
$ bundle install
```

Or install it yourself as:
```bash
$ gem install resource-api
```

## Usage

#### Controllers
Controllers are setup in a way to perform based CRUD operations without much need for customization. Define your allowed parameters in your models (see below) and the controller will handle the rest. The `Api::ResourceController` also provides protected methods that can be overwritten or extended to customize functionality:
```ruby
def apply_filters(query)
  return query unless params[:homeroom].present?
  
  query.where(homeroom: params[:homeroom])
end
```

The `Api::ResourceController` uses the `Queryable` concern to build your query on the `#index` and `#show` routes. You can use the `preloads`, `joins`, `left_joins`, and `per_page` methods to optimize the query and avoid unnecessary queries during serialization.

```ruby
class Api::StudentsController < Api::ResourceController
  per_page 20
  preloads :school, :classes
end
```

#### Models
Models can be setup using the `Resourceable` concern to define strong parameters. The list of parameters can be acessed using `<ModelName>.permitted_params` (i.e. `Student.permitted_params`). This is done automatically in the `Api::ResourceController` in order to enforce the appropriate parameters.

```ruby
class Student < ApplicationRecord
  include Resourceable

  belongs_to :school
  has_many :classes, dependent: :destroy

  accepts_nested_attributes_for :classes, allow_destroy: true

  allow_params :first_name, :last_name, :yog, :dob, :homeroom,
               classes_attributes: [:id, :section_id, :_destroy]
end
```

#### Serializers
Serializers use the `ObjectSerializer` concern to define which attributes to render and when.

The `index_attributes` and `belongs_to` attributes defined will be rendered on the `#index` route.

The `show_attributes`, `belongs_to`, and `has_many` attributes defined will be rendered on the `#show`, `#create`, and `#update` routes.

```ruby
class StudentsSerializer < BaseSerializer
  index_attributes :id, :first_name, :last_name
  
  show_attributes :id, :first_name, :last_name, :yog, :dob, :homeroom
  
  has_many classes: [:id, :section_id]
  
  belongs_to school: SchoolsSerializer
end
```

### Heroku
During development, your development machine's SSH keys should allow access to the performant-software GitHub organization, so nothing special will need to be done to use this library in another project.

When deploying to a staging server on Heroku, we'll need to allow Heroku access to the react-components repository in order to install dependencies. This section will describe how to do that.

#### Copy preinstall and postinstall scripts
Copy the `preinstall.sh` and `postinstall.sh` scripts from this repository into your project. It doesn't matter where, but a directory named `scripts` is usually a good idea.

#### Update package.json
In your root level `package.json`, add or append the following to the `scripts` object:
```
"heroku-prebuild": "bash ./scripts/preinstall.sh"
"heroku-postbuild": "bash ./scripts/postinstall.sh"
```
These two scripts will install your SSH key prebuild, then after the dependencies are installed, remove it.

#### Generate a deploy key
Within the resource-api repository, go to Settings < Deploy Keys. Add a new deploy key for your project. Name it something obvious like "My Awesome Project Staging" so that others will know what it is used for. Copy the value of the key.

#### Add your deploy key to Heroku
In the Heroku dashboard for your app, navigate to the Settings tab. Add a config var with key `RESOURCE_API_SSH_KEY` and paste the value copied from the deploy key generated on GitHub.

## License
The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
